>> How can someone say
that it doesn't exist?
That's extreme denial to
the point of insanity.
>> Three years ago, I set out
across America to investigate
a story about a mysterious
substance called "Ormus,"
a story so strange that I had
to meet the people behind it.
>> These are a group of
previously unknown minerals.
>> Everyone was experiencing
a metaphysical type of effect
with it.
>> You can take a substance that
will cause reality to change.
>> My blood oxygen level
shows the blood oxygen level
of a teenage athlete.
>> But getting a grasp of
the facts was proving more
difficult than I ever imagined.
>> It's a very slippery subject.
>> Tell him he needs to stop.
You need to stop.
>> Let's talk out of the car.
>> It seems to me he feels he
has the secret to something.
>> A secret as old as the Bible.
Can you make gold?
>> Can I make gold?
>> Would you consider
yourself an alchemist,
because you're making
gold, aren't you?
>> Yes.
>> People will die
because of this.
People have been
killed because of this.
This is the story of
my search, to find out
if Ormus really does exist and
if it's possible to literally
make gold.
>> What is going on here?
>> Anybody that tries it,
in my opinion, is an idiot.
[ROOSTER CROWING]
[BIRDS TWEETING]
>> I'm here to meet David Wolfe,
who's a superfoods nutritionist
kind of guy.
Don't know too much about him.
But as far as I know, he's
been experimenting with Ormus.
[BUZZING]
>> The discovery of Ormus
is indicating the following,
that there are atoms that
exist in the geosphere,
in the Earth itself
and on the Earth.
And there are atoms that
exist in the atmosphere that
do not fit into the periodic
table of the elements.
Now, that is a
shocking discovery.
And it's one of the greatest
discoveries in modern science.
When we put a tree
like this in, we
saturate it with all different
kinds of Ormus extracts.
And from there, we're getting
some interesting results.
We're getting some of this
really powerful growth, which
durian is just
starting to display.
This durian is going to be
one of the big ones here.
It's getting better
and better and better.
As strange as that sounds,
we're taking concentrate
of strange matter,
the Ormus minerals,
to feed the plants better.
And the plant is always trying
to get access to as much
of those Ormus
elements as possible.
When it finally
gets access to them,
then it will bring
these noble elements
right to the genetics,
which is in its pollen.
We're not only
farming plants here.
What we're really doing
is we're even elevating it
one step further, by letting
the bees work with us to take
all those Ormus elements.
And the bees have collected
that and turned it
into a dynamite honey.
I'm not into theories.
I'm into results.
This is our neighbor's honey.
That's our honey.
There's your result.
>> Claims like these have been
coming out of America for a few
years, but hardly anyone I
know has even heard of Ormus.
Across, on the other
side of the country,
it wasn't just bees and
trees that were supposedly
being affected by Ormus.
>> I give it to my
horse, Scout, here.
He really likes it.
I give it to my parrot at home.
She really likes it.
>> How do you know they like it?
>> Because they
go-- they go for it.
This horse, I'll
give him a syringe
filled with it in his mouth.
And he won't let a drop
fall out of his mouth.
I don't have to hold him.
He's just, like, right
there with his lip.
>> Let's get some water.
Hmm.
>> Let's install this where
you don't lose some, OK?
Now, look at-- this is--
and I know I'm doing
something good for my horse,
taking care of his
health physically.
I believe that I'm increasing
the acuity of his mind.
>> This is a thermal
imaging camera, right?
>> Exactly.
We're taking a thermal image
through an infrared camera
to create the heat signatures.
This will tell me any kind
of hot spots in the body.
These are very subtle things.
>> Just point out
what's going on here.
>> What I'm seeing the
left side is the before.
And on the right, because
the color is more vibrant,
it means that there's
more energetics going on.
There's some sort of
activity that is increased--
>> Happening there
at a cellular level.
>> But I know.
Can you explain to me then
how that is when all you're
seeing temperature?
Is that right?
So how do you know?
How do you--
>> I think we're just telling
you that we're seeing changes
in this body after we've
given the Ormus material.
That's telling us that
there's more vitality.
Can use the word "vitality"
instead of "energy."
There's more
vitality in this leg
on the-- two legs on the right
than there is on the left.
All the pictures are showing you
is that, gee whiz, this horse
was given this Ormus.
And we are showing that there's
more vitality on those two
legs.
>> Not exactly what I
would call "hard science."
But the more I looked, more
Ormus stories I uncovered.
Eight years ago in the
desert, outside Las Vegas,
Pat Baily discovered
completely by accident
a strange white powder.
>> We had geologists
go out there.
And they determined that this
site was a meteorite impact
that happened 11,600 years ago.
Now, it was interesting.
The soil was all white.
I took it to a lab and
had a nightcap analysis
done on it, which
basically can tell you
every little aspect, every
little element-- every element
that's in the sample.
And it looked just
like common clay.
So that didn't tell me anything.
>> Pat believed he had found
an Ormus deposit and began
producing an Ormus-based
health supplement.
Sean Adam, the director of the
Alphalearning Research Center,
wanted to do some preliminary
laboratory testing on it.
Three or four days after
I sent out the product,
I get a call from him.
And he goes,
(AUSTRALIAN ACCENT) man,
do you know what
you've got here?
And I said, well, I think so.
I've been selling it, you
know, for four or five years,
whatever the case was then.
And he goes,
(AUSTRALIAN ACCENT) you
don't have the slightest
idea what you've got here.
And I said, OK, Sean.
Why don't you tell
me what I got here?
And he basically said that, I
charge people $5,000 for a week
seminar to teach them how
to get in the alpha state
of brainwave activity.
And all I have to
do is give someone
one capsule of your stuff, and
they're automatically there,
just like that.
Everyone was experiencing a
metaphysical type of effect
with it.
The electromagnetic
lab determined
that the exact same
vortexes that take place
when energy transforms
itself into matter
is inherent in every
grain of this stuff.
So basically, I was
told that this deposit
had the creative force
of the entire universe.
And I knew I had something then.
>> But the question is,
what exactly did he have?
What is Ormus?
Let's say structurally
or chemically.
You have something to say.
>> Stop.
Stop for a moment.
>> It doesn't really behave
like any normal matter.
>> It does appear as matter
existing with weight,
but there's no atomic
number or name for it.
>> We know-- we can definitively
say that Ormus is the material
in an altered state.
>> It's like a riddle.
That's as best I
can describe it.
>> We can't definitively say
what that altered state is.
>> And that's basically all
we can say at the moment with
Ormus.
>> The story of
Ormus starts in 1976,
with a cotton farmer from
Arizona called David Hudson.
He'd begun analyzing the
mineral content of his land,
specifically searching
for precious metals, when
he began to find strange white
powder that no one seemed
to be able to identify.
His anomalous substance had
some very strange properties.
In the sunlight, it would
explode in a flash of light.
But in the dark, it would
float away from his hands.
And at different temperatures,
it would change weight
and would sometimes
disappear altogether.
Hudson spent millions trying
to find out what he had.
Yet according to
all the analysis,
his white powder
was pure nothing.
Now, I was really curious.
Could Ormus be real?
I began to reason if it's
so difficult to detect Ormus
directly, perhaps
measuring its effects would
be the easiest way to prove
it does actually exist.
And so I decided to
try and do just that.
>> Relax.
Relax.
I work with mapping
the electrical activity
of the brain with
surface scalp electrodes.
So this is an electro cap.
You can release now.
OK.
>> I'd asked Dr. Urqurdi to test
what effects taking Ormus has
on my brain.
>> Recording.
>> First, we do a test
without taking any Ormus.
>> So we can observe
the alpha rhythms.
They wax and wane.
>> Urqurdi is especially
interested to see if Ormus will
have any effects on my
alpha brainwave rhythms.
>> The alpha rhythm is
associated with a calm
but alert mind.
It's a relaxed awareness state.
>> It's now about 3:50 PM.
>> The next day, we tried again,
this time after taking some
of Pat Baily's Ormus product.
>> OK.
So Joe is now taking
Etherium Gold Caps.
>> OK.
[CLOCK TICKING]
>> But it's subtle.
I feel perceptibly more
alert than yesterday.
>> Good.
So this is improved
considerably.
You calmed down a little bit.
>> I felt it.
>> And look at this.
The alpha is over the top.
>> That's interesting.
>> This suggests that the
Etherium Gold changes alpha
power, which is
interesting to me,
because alpha power is one of
the dimensions that changes
in energy healers when they're
focused doing their work.
>> Well, that's a
pretty exciting result,
and one that I wasn't
really sure I was expecting.
And if Ormus has this effect
on me after just one go,
I wanted to find out
what effects it has
on someone who's been
taking it for years.
>> Do you take Ormus personally?
>> Every day.
I had a lot of back pain.
I used to crawl out of bed on my
hands and knees in the morning.
I used to have a lot
of pain at the base
of both thumbs, arthritis.
And again, that's gone.
My blood oxygen level,
whenever it's tested,
shows the blood oxygen level
of a teenage athlete, which,
you know, for my age,
66, that's pretty good.
[DOOR CHIMES]
>> Hi.
>> Hi there.
>> I forgot to ask you
about your product.
>> Oh.
>> What is it you make?
>> I make a mineral extract of
seawater for agricultural use.
>> Arthur believes that his
seawater-based products boost
crop yields because of its
extremely high Ormus content.
>> I can show you here the
kind of results that we get.
These are seeds for
scarlet runner beans.
This is the way it comes
from the seed company.
This is what was harvested.
You can see the difference.
There's no way to explain the
bioactivity that we're seeing.
It has to be something
other than the effect
of conventional
mineral application.
>> They're twice the size.
>> Yeah.
Ormus allows the plant
to more fully express
its full genetic
potential, and not
only the plant but the
microflora in the soil,
as well.
We've had soil analysis done two
or three weeks after applying
our material to the soil.
And the total bacterial biomass
will be increased by 50%.
Total fungal biomass will
be increased by over 100%.
>> And what is it about the
Ormus that is doing that?
>> Well, I don't really know.
>> While he shows
me around his lab,
Arthur reveals to me
something that, until now,
I thought was just a rumor.
>> I've been able to extract
very significant amounts
of gold from seawater and put
it in a metallic form and put it
in a scale and weigh it.
>> So you're pulling
gold out of Ormus.
>> Correct.
>> I don't even know of that.
Would you consider
yourself an alchemist?
>> I've been called that.
I don't consider myself
to be an alchemist.
I consider myself to be an
extractive metallurgist.
>> It turns out that Hudson,
who discovered Ormus,
was doing something
very similar.
He quickly realized that
Ormus was extremely rich
in precious platinum-group
metals, an unbelievable 2,400
ounces per ton.
Essentially, he believed that
Ormus is largely composed
of precious metals in an
exotic state of matter,
where the metal atoms don't
form any bonds with each other
but exist as separate
single atoms,
making them what he called
"orbitally rearranged
monoatomic elements."
But because it can't be measured
and therefore can't be proven,
the scientific community
ignored his findings.
And then in 1992, Hudson
goes a step further
and announces that his
white powder is in fact
the legendary Philosopher's
Stone, mythical prize
of the alchemists, an
elixir of life that
will cure all illnesses, bring
about spiritual enlightenment,
and turn base metals into gold.
He set out to produce
it for human consumption
on a really large scale.
But a disastrous acid leak
caused Hudson's facility
to shut down just days
before it became operational.
And then Hudson
simply disappeared.
I'm interested in the
fact that it's apparently
completely new to science or
whether it is actually alchemy.
So I need to try and figure
out how to make gold.
I don't think that's such
a big thing to ask, is it?
Well, it turns out it is.
Frustratingly, Arthur won't
show me how he makes gold
or even how he makes Ormus.
Why do you think there's so
much secrecy around Ormus?
>> Well, if anyone is actually
putting Ormus minerals
into metallic form on
a commercial scale,
I can understand why they would
be extremely secretive about
it.
The only thing I'm
secretive about
are my own original methods that
I've discovered and developed.
I protect my methods.
>> Well, at least now I have a
possible way to prove without
a doubt the existence of Ormus.
All I have to do is find a
way to turn it into gold.
A few weeks after
visiting Arthur,
I finally managed
to find someone who
will show me how to make Ormus.
Is this my first step in
learning how to make gold?
>> This is our lab, where we
process essential oils and make
our products.
One of the things
we're researching
is how Ormus and essential
oils work together.
>> I just want to clear
something up here.
You're making Ormus.
>> Right.
So what is it?
What are you making?
>> What are we making?
Basically, what
we're doing is we're
taking salt from
various sources,
precipitating out the--
what we believe to be
the Ormus elements.
>> Like everyone else I visited,
Peter can't give me a clear
definition of what
Ormus actually is.
>> This is one-day lye
solution, food-grade lye.
And what I'm going to do now
is start dropping it in slowly
as I stir.
And if you now
put the camera in,
you'll see it's like
it's snowing in there.
Do you see that?
It's starting to precipitate.
And we'll keep going.
>> I am slightly surprised to
learn that it takes nothing
more than distilled
water, sea salt,
and lye or caustic
soda to make Ormus.
Yet, Peter is absolutely
convinced in its power.
>> I've seen rapid healings
in myself and others.
I've seen increases in energy,
increases in states of mind.
I've seen that doorway open
up many other doorways.
>> With very little science
to back any of this up,
I decide the only way forward
is to continue testing it
on myself, to become
a human guinea pig.
>> And what we're going to do is
treat all of the energy centers
of our bodies, the main ones.
And--
>> Just one drop?
Here?
As instructed, I
rub Peter's mixtures
of essential oils and
Ormus onto my body.
>> Imagine, like, if you
have that the whole weekend.
[WHOOSHING]
>> Peter put a drop of
something on my head.
I am feeling pretty spaced out.
Yeah, kind of like an intensity
to stuff at the moment.
It's really not dissimilar to
the first stages of coming up
on an acid trip, like
completely lucid but just
a bit spasticated.
And I like my little
hut that I found.
It's crazy.
I think I should just
sit down for a minute.
Do this.
Flipping heck.
[LAUGHS]
Why do you think so few
people have heard about Ormus?
>> I think they probably
have heard about it,
but it just goes by
a different name.
And you know, these
days, we haven't heard
about a lot of traditions.
These substances have
been celebrated and used
for a long time.
>> Some, like Peter, believe
the discovery of Ormus was most
likely only a rediscovery.
In ancient Egypt,
a precious mineral
referred to in many
temples and stiles
was used by the
priests and pharaohs
in many of their rituals.
The powder was
made by the priests
and used to make ceremonial
bread cakes for the pharaohs
so that they might live
longer and be closer to God.
Centuries later, in 1904,
British archaeologist Sir
Flinders Petrie stumbled
across a hidden temple
on Mount Serabit in the
middle of the Sinai Desert.
Inside the temple, he
found huge quantities
of an unknown white
powder that resembled ash.
Yet strangely, he found
no evidence of the fires.
A few wayward
historians have dared
to suggest that this is the very
mountain in the Sinai Desert
under which the Hebrews in 1400
BC, led by Moses out of Egypt,
camped during the
time of the Exodus--
Moses, who according to
the unlikely Bible story
had been found in the rushes
and adopted by and raised
in the Egyptian
royal family, Moses,
who is much more likely to
be the half-Israelite pharaoh
Akhenaten, grandson
of Tuthmosis,
banished to the
Sinai around 1400 BC
for trying to ban
the worship of idols
and who developed the
notion of a single faceless
god named "Atan."
As a pharaoh, Moses
would have known
all of the secrets of
the priests and pharaohs.
Moses would have known all
about the bread of life, made
from the white powder of gold.
The Egyptians called
the powder "mfktz,"
but they knew it was
no ordinary mineral.
"Mfktz" means "what is it."
But literally translated,
the hieroglyph
reads "spirit, fire,
stone," part magic,
part precious mineral.
"Manna" in Hebrew is also
translated as "what is it,"
manna, miraculous edible
substance that God
provided for the Israelites
during their travels
in the Sinai.
And it was stored by Moses
in the Ark of the Covenant.
Does this also shed light
on a strange story in Exodus
when Moses, furious that
his people were worshipping
an idol of a golden calf, took
the golden statue, burnt it
in the fire, ground it to a
powder, mixed it with water,
and made the children
of Israel drink of it?
Was knowledge of the
secret arts of alchemy
what the Hebrews
had been chosen for?
Did Jesus know about
these processes?
Was he an alchemist?
And his alleged progeny,
the Knights Templar,
who took their name
from Solomon's temple,
the last known resting place
of the Ark of the Covenant,
famed for their secrecy
and political power,
who created the first
international banking
system, who amassed more
money than the King of France,
and who claim to
be the guardians
of the Ark of the Covenant--
was their secret actually
the knowledge of alchemy?
But could this be the same
thing that Peter was making?
>> What else, Joe?
>> That's good.
That's good for now.
Thank you.
And I just put it in my mouth?
>> Yeah.
>> The next day, I try ingesting
a more concentrated phase.
Oh!
Holy crap.
What is that?
>> This is like primo.
>> It's electric.
Whoo!
[BEEP]
[LAUGHTER]
[DOOR CREAKS]
[SIGHS]
He gave me some
stuff last night.
And look, I wasn't
feeling straight.
That's for sure.
It was almost like
being quite stoned,
but without any of the paranoia,
without the silly giggles
or hysteria or anything.
But it was-- my
reality was shifted.
I can definitely say that.
Can you make gold?
>> Can I make gold?
I don't know if I can make gold.
I never-- I don't
know how to make gold.
That is what's in there.
We just don't see it.
Some alchemists attempt it.
Some alchemists are
able to achieve it.
But it's after lots
and lots of work.
And what I've seen
is that you might
get just a little bitty piece.
>> I don't think finding answers
is going to be easy on this
trip--
facts, certainly not.
I don't think people really
have any facts when it
comes to Ormus, at the moment.
I leave Peter with little
doubt that Ormus does exist.
But I also leave with even
more unanswered questions.
And I'm still no closer to
being able to make gold.
Fuck sakes.
My questions inevitably
lead me to Baker City,
to one of the world's
foremost experts on Ormus.
What's your name?
>> My name's Barry Carter.
>> What do you do?
>> I'm an unemployed
college dropout.
I had to quit school
because it was
interfering with my education.
Get a good video here
of when it starts up.
And notice the vortex
inside as it goes.
What happens is the water
comes in here at an angle.
Because that angle
causes it to spin,
that means that that
vortex is literally
holding that air inside
and keeping it there.
These magnets repel anything
that's super conductive.
They repel anything
that's anti-magnetic,
or it's also called
"diamagnetic."
And when they repel it,
they drive it to the center.
Since the return flow is
coming down the center,
that's where this
stuff comes out.
>> And you drink that.
>> This is the good stuff.
>> What would you call that
that comes out the end?
>> It'd be an Ormus
concentrate from water,
trap water concentrate.
>> (ON COMPUTER) Which is
controlling your vibration.
>> Barry has a website where
he has gathered together all
the available scraps of Ormus
information into one place.
He could be regarded as the
"dean of the school of Ormus."
>> These are a group of
previously unknown minerals.
The reason that they're
unknown to science
is that they don't show
up spectroscopically
in spectroscopic assay,
like ordinary minerals do.
And this suggests
that they're probably
in another state of being,
another state of matter.
In this state, these
materials do amazing things.
In addition to what
they do for plants,
we've seen them
levitate, for example.
>> What proof, scientific
proof, have you of Ormus?
>> Well, people have taken
trap water and converted it
to metal.
The metal has been
assayed and has been
proven to be precious metals.
>> Why do you think there's so
much secrecy surrounding Ormus?
>> Let's talk out of the car.
Ask me later.
>> You know, they
talk about levitation,
about cures for cancer,
about all sorts of things.
But then the reality of
what they're willing to show
is a water that perhaps
is slightly oilier
then another water.
Am I really in Baker City
in the middle of winter,
trying to learn how to make
gold out of a white powder?
Yeah.
Off-camera, he'll tell
me loads of stories
and show me lots of stuff, which
he will then refuses to repeat.
It's usually relating
to making gold.
He won't talk about
that stuff on camera.
Everybody's so paranoid about
people getting killed for this.
Is it all shit?
I don't know, man.
I don't really know.
I've no idea what's going on.
[POPPING]
But then I learned that not only
is it theoretically possible
to turn one element
into another,
but it has been done before.
And it's called "transmutation."
The periodic table
of the elements
arranges the elemental
atoms according
to their atomic
number, the number
of protons in the nuclei.
On the whole, this will also
be the number of electrons
in the electron cloud.
Those negatively
charged electrons
will balance the positive
charge of the protons.
Hydrogen, the most
abundant element
in the universe, for example,
has the atomic number one.
It has one proton, no neutrons,
and a single electron.
Gold has the atomic number 79.
So it has 79 protons, 79
electrons, and 180 neutrons.
Next along is mercury.
Mercury, atomic number 80,
has 80 protons, 80 electrons,
and 121 neutrons.
So to make mercury into
gold, all you have to do
is subtract one proton, one
electron, and three neutrons.
It can be done.
It has been done.
As far back as 1901, when Ernest
Rutherford and Frederick Soddy,
discovered that radioactive
thorium was converting itself
into radium, Soddy
later recalled
shouting at Rutherford,
"Rutherford, this
is transmutation!"
Rutherford snapped back,
for Christ's sake, Soddy,
don't call it "transmutation."
They'll have our heads
off as alchemists.
So why is it so few
people are doing it?
Well, because as far as the
scientific establishment
is concerned, you need
a particle collider
or a nuclear reaction
to make it happen.
Why do you think
there's so much secrecy
surrounding the subject?
>> People-- most people who are
aware of Ormus realize that it
has the potential of
bringing a lot of change.
And any structure that's
been set up to resist change
will resist that.
So people are careful about
sharing too much information
about it or careful
about putting it
in certain places,
because they don't
want to encounter a structure
that is resisting change.
>> Barry is another dead end.
Whatever he knows about
low-energy transmutation,
he's keeping to himself.
They all feel like people
will die because of this.
People have been
killed because of this.
Maybe that's true,
but it seems to me
he feels he has the
secret to something that
can make him wealthy or
that can change the world
or whatever it is.
I spoke to you, oh, about
two, three weeks ago.
Yes.
You know who I am then.
Then my luck changes.
I manage to get
through to Don Nance,
a well-known and
respected alchemist.
And he invites me to come
to his home in Florida.
OK.
Bye.
Don tells me he has not
only successfully made gold
using Ormus.
But he has had his results
tested in scientific assays
to back it up.
>> Hello.
>> Don.
>> How are you?
The first item on here
is spa Dead Sea salt.
And here, you see
that the salt itself
contains of silver less
than 0.05 parts per billion,
and with gold, 0.36
parts per billion.
Well, I took this
same dried material,
and I did King
Solomon's process on it.
And I sent it off for another
assay after doing that.
On the silver, the
fire assay came out
to 279.4 ounces per ton.
You're going to start to see
the huge astronomical difference
between what we started with and
what we, so far, have ended up
with.
It's all real.
Nobody's making
these results up.
And here's the certified assay.
It's signed, dated, and stamped.
>> For Don, these results
conclusively prove
the existence of Ormus.
>> How can someone say
that it doesn't exist?
That's extreme denial to
the point of insanity.
And if you're a scientist
sitting there saying that,
you need to go and
talk to a therapist,
because you're really out
of touch with reality.
That's all that's left of it,
since I've been digging in it
and getting gold out of it.
It doesn't look like it would
contain any gold or silver
at all.
But I have 279 ounces per ton.
>> When Don was diagnosed
with cancer 10 years ago,
he started taking
Ormus as a last resort.
>> I got out of bed.
I mean, it was
literally like somebody
turned the light switch on.
And I went back to
the same doctor,
and I was miraculously
clear of cancer.
I've seen too many
things happen, too many
things that are just--
cannot be ignored.
And yet, science tends to
largely want to ignore them.
>> I think it's a question
that needs to be asked.
So if you can make gold,
why aren't you richer?
>> Well, I about killed myself
making the half of a bucketful
that I made.
That was five years
ago, and I still
haven't recovered from it.
Think the radiation-damaged
beaker will show up?
It was radioactive
for quite a while.
It's what made me sick.
I'm not going to tell people
how to make the gold the way
that I did it, because it's
the wrong way to do it.
You can see what
it did to the brand
new stainless steel container
when you're trying to force it
back down to metal--
peeled it like an onion
below the boiling temperature
of water.
I mean, the kind
of radiation that
does this at low temperatures
is beta and gamma.
And they will kill you.
It nearly killed me.
>> And finally, Don shows me
what I've been waiting to see.
>> So you can imagine what
happened to me when I was
forcing them down with high
heat and stuff to make this gold
metal.
>> OK.
That's gold, is it?
>> It's at least 24-karat.
>> I'm not sure what
to believe anymore.
But Don tells me
of a guy in Utah,
who supposedly uses a more
modern and safer technique
to-- to make gold.
So I decide, what the hell?
In for a penny, in for a pound.
Would you consider
yourself an alchemist?
>> Yes.
I mean, technically,
I am an alchemist.
>> Because you're
making gold, aren't you?
>> Yes.
Actually making gold?
>> Actually physically making
gold in gram-sized and even
ounce-sized quantities of gold.
>> And sure enough, right there
on his bookshelf is more gold.
>> We can take a bar of silver
and get 30% to 40% conversion
of it into gold.
>> Dr. Champion tells
me he made it himself,
using a kind of homemade
nuclear reactor.
So this is-- you're
working in a garage.
>> Right.
Yeah.
>> This is it?
>> This is it.
>> I'm amazed.
It's-- you're making
gold in a garage.
>> Yeah.
>> What else can you show me?
>> Well, I tell you what.
Not on camera, I can
show you what's inside.
>> OK.
I'll turn the camera off.
I'm not sure why he asked
me to turn the camera off.
Inside, all I saw was
what looked like a Subway
sandwich wrapped in tinfoil.
I brought a piece of silver
with me, as you requested.
>> OK.
>> Six ounces.
And what's going
to happen to it?
That we're going to--
I convert it to 30%--
to 40% gold.
>> These nuclear reactions
you're talking about--
>> Yes--
>> Is this cold fission?
>> Cold fusion.
>> It's not, but it's
very similar to it.
>> And you're not
going to just paint it?
>> I do-- well, you'd be able
to scratch it and find out that
the go runs all
the way through it.
>> I have no idea
what to make of that.
Is he absolutely mad?
Or is this-- is he going
to get a Nobel Prize?
[LAUGHS]
That is insane.
That was crazy,
absolutely crazy.
>> Three, two, one.
>> A week later, it's
time to collect my gold.
You've got something to show me?
>> I don't know how
well you can see that,
as far as the gold in it.
But this is that six-ounce
silver bar you bought me.
We tested.
It tested eight- to 10-karat
gold by electronic tester.
And we did a
physical test today.
I actually drilled it, as you
can see the drill holes in it
at different places,
two drill holes.
And did the spot test on the
drill holes with nitric acid.
And as you can see, the inside
of the drill holes are gold.
>> I don't understand how it
can be physically the same size,
yet be more gold now and
not have changed its shape
if the density's higher.
>> Well, I tell you what, it's--
well, try to put your
mind around it this way.
If you've got two
atoms of silver--
silver's a diatomic molecule--
and you form those two
atoms in silver into gold,
they're going--
the actual physical
outside is going
to occupy close
to the same space.
It's not going to change
just from my reactor.
>> I have no idea how that
went, what to think of that.
He didn't really
give me any answers.
What he did give me
is some bars, which
if they really are gold, I mean,
that's absolutely outstanding.
He's either mad as a teaspoon
or an absolute genius.
And I could only think of one
quick way to find out which.
>> It's pure silver's all it is.
>> It looks pretty silver to me.
>> That guy's so
full of baloney.
You sure he's not out of
some sort of institute?
[LAUGHS]
Heard a lot of
stories in my life.
>> And so after a year
spent crisscrossing America,
trying to find out
how to make gold,
all I have to show for it is
a fucked-up silver bar with
a hole drilled in it.
It really feels like
the end of the road.
[PHONE RINGING]
Hello?
And then I get a
major breakthrough.
David Hudson, the guy who first
discovered Ormus on his farm
back in the 1970s and then
disappeared, contacts me.
OK.
That sounds good.
He said he-- the
main points of what
he spoke about was that
he's not interested in being
interviewed.
He'll chat to me.
He will chat to me,
but not on camera.
He wants to meet me in Phoenix.
So despite being out
of time and money,
I drop everything and
get back on the road.
It feels like this
is my last chance
to get to the heart
of this mystery.
And this is where I'm
meeting David Hudson.
I'm in a car park
waiting for him.
And we're going to meet in a
restaurant and have a chat.
Well, he wouldn't talk to
me, not on camera, anyway.
He's a very nice guy--
had a really long chat with him.
But he wouldn't talk
to me, which is a pity.
He's definitely very much
involved still in-- in Ormus.
He has very little regard
for any of the people
I've spoken to so far.
In fact, actively dislikes
quite a number of them.
He says he's working with some
very, very wealthy, very, very
connected people out in Taiwan.
And maybe later down the line--
maybe later on, he'll--
he'll get back to me.
But for now, he's not going to--
he's not going to talk.
Hmm.
Yeah.
>> (ON PHONE) Hello.
You have reached the office
of David and Brannon.
Please leave a message
for David after the tone.
Or press "two" to leave
a message for Brannon.
[BEEP]
>> Hi.
This is a message for David.
It's Joe--
After we had met, Hudson
didn't return my calls
or answer any emails.
And I found myself shut
out of the Ormus community.
And yet, I can't
seem to let this go.
You know, there's
one rumor I've heard
is that there's going
to be another Ormus
conference in a few weeks.
And apparently, David Hudson
is going to speak there.
So I'll have one last attempt.
See if I can get
him to talk to me.
I took a chance
and bought a ticket
for the Ormus conference.
Tickets to these events are
not cheap at $500 a head.
Neither are all of the
Ormus products on sale.
But as soon as I arrive,
there is the man himself,
David Hudson, holding court.
>> Precious metals are rare.
But precious elements
are everywhere.
>> I have a lot of questions.
But surprisingly, Hudson
refuses to talk to me
or let me use any footage
of him in this documentary.
>> Tell him he needs to stop.
You need to stop.
I can't-- I can't have
the primary upset, OK?
There is a very strong
request not to film this, OK?
So--
>> From who?
>> From everybody.
I was like, I'm trying to
get why are you getting this?
Who are you in the matter?
What do we all get from this?
>> But I stayed, anyway, to
listen to his talk and watch
the audience gobble
up his every word.
His talk started well, a
point-by-point breakdown,
with evidence of his
initial discovery.
And then-- well, let
me quote for you.
"You will telepathically
know the thoughts of others
that are in the room with you.
You are going to
be like an angel.
You will literally be
able to take a sick child
in a hospital, hold him in your
arms for two or three minutes,
and place him down.
And he will be cured, and you
will literally stop aging."
He concluded his talk
by inviting donations
to help with further research.
Barry was also at
the conference,
but it was Don who seemed
the most pleased to see me.
And so I asked him again if
he'll show me how to make gold.
>> Pardon?
>> You understand why I chose
to follow the gold, don't you?
>> Yeah.
You want to demonstrate
the anomaly there.
And I understand you
wanting to do that.
But it creates a tremendous
amount of pollution.
It creates radiation.
And anybody that tries it,
in my opinion, is an idiot.
>> But after explaining that
if I can't make gold out of it,
no one will believe that
Ormus really exists,
Don finally agrees to
show me how to make gold,
but only if I don't
reveal the entire process.
>> I don't have any problem
actually doing the work
and having you, yourself, and
maybe some other people watch
it, verify it, say that, yeah,
you saw this with your own two
eyes so you know there
wasn't any funny business.
>> So two weeks later,
I fly back to Florida,
ready to finally
make my own gold.
>> What's up, dude?
>> I'm good.
How are you?
Raw gold.
>> You make it look
very easy, Don.
>> Cool, brother.
>> So that's stage
one done, isn't it?
>> Yeah.
>> And this is what Don says
we got to put out in the--
in the sunlight.
That's all of it.
>> You shall be gold.
Ooh.
You talk to a lot of people
that, if they know something,
won't talk.
>> Right.
>> You know?
And I'm trusting you to
do this in the right way.
There really is low-energy
transmutation going on.
I mean, I've told
you personally more
about this than any other
person on the planet.
The reason I think that this
is going to be a good location
to do the burn is it's about
as far removed from people
as we can get within 100 miles.
I'm going to give
you a once-around.
That one in the-- right there.
Yeah.
We can make gold here.
This is nice.
I like it.
You don't mind if the air smells
funny for a few days, do you?
[LAUGHS]
>> I've got-- the Geiger
counter's just there that
arrived at Don's.
I feel vaguely ridiculous buying
these things, to be honest.
You know, I'm setting
myself up to believe
that Don's going to create
something radioactive in a pot
by just burning it.
And you know, most of the
rational side of my being
is saying, it's complete
crap, obviously.
I'm going to go
through, figure out how
to use these Geiger counters.
So yeah.
There's a lot that
rests on tomorrow.
>> Oh.
>> Nothing yet.
This is it.
It's all about this envelope.
Over the last three
years, I have come up
against secrecy,
pseudoscience, and, at times,
downright quackery.
And I still have very
little real evidence at all
that Ormus exists.
And so it all
comes down to this.
>> It's round two.
>> So with my journey
now at its end,
did I learn how to make gold?
Well, sort of.
I didn't get the
kinds of results
that Don got five years ago
and certainly not enough
to make me rich.
But I did get something.
The first stage of the process
caused the gold content
to increase 100-fold.
But by the end, the
analysis that came back
had 2,000 times the
amount of gold and silver.
It is very small amounts
I'm talking about,
parts per billion, in fact.
But it is enough
to be considered
real empirical data, data that
supports the theory that there
is a substance, called "Ormus"
by some, that we don't yet
know how to analyze but that
can, under certain conditions,
become a recognized metal.
And if that part of
the story is true,
I'm inclined to join in with
the believers and the alchemists
of past and of the present
and say that Ormus really
does exist.
And making chunks of gold
out of it, well, why not?
After all, anything is possible.
[MUSIC PLAYING]